1. Technology in Medicine
1. Software is a force, one that has infinite potential and scope.
2. We want you to direct this energy to a field that is probably one of the most important today: medicine.
3. The teams are expected to develop a mobile application which would aid in any aspect of medical care.
4. Eg. image analysis for disease identification, an app for differently abled people, etc.

2. National Security
1. The frequency of terror attacks in the last five years has demonstrated the need for a more efficient security system in the country.
2. In the battle between good and evil, software can play a decisive, even game changing role.
3. The teams are expected to develop a tool to help the good side win.
4. The scope of this is vast, its effects potentially rippling into many different fields.
5. Eg. a computer program to identify potential threats at an airport, a threat assessment model at a particular landmark, criminal identification and tracking, etc.

3. Resource Management
1. The recent blackout in north India left more people in the dark than the combined population of the USA and Canada combined.
2. In many cases like transportation, security or medical services, such lack of power is unacceptable.
3. Along with electricity, the management of water is another critical concern.
3. The teams are expected to develop a model of a resource distribution network, the resource being electricity, water, gas pipelines, etc. and manage it efficiently.
4. How would the finitely available resources be allocated or distributed in a grid? What must be done if certain network sections fail? What can be done in the extreme cases with minimal resources? All these questions and more are important and should shape your optimal solution.

4. Emergency Response
1. An emergency such as an accident is many a times lethal. However, the sad thing is, many of the victims who die could have been saved by timely treatment.
2. Here, the word 'timely' is key, for in this scenario, speed trumps all.
3. The teams are expected to come up a solution to facilitate efficient emergency service response.
4. This is a problem with many social ramifications, one that could potentially	 revolutionize the emergency response field, and in the process, maybe even save a life...

5. The Open Pool
1. The event was designed keeping in mind the fact that innovation cannot be restricted to any specific field.
2. In support of this mindset, we encourage any other idea the teams might have but with a restriction.
3. The teams will have to send in a synopsis for their idea as well as select any of the above problem areas and send in a synopsis for it as well.
4. The idea will be screened and if found fit, will be allowed otherwise the teams will have to stick to the other problem area they selected.
5. The idea though open should focus on the theme of 'Evolution in Technology' and help in some way to the cause. The synopsis should be convincing enough to make the idea clear.
